---
layout: articles
category: articles
title: Please mind the gap. The gap of where you are now to where you want to be
description: Have you felt recently that there’s a gap between where you are at now and where you want to be? I tend to have this feeling a lot while I’m working on my businesses for So Magnetic and Compass of Design. I see a huge gap between where I want everything to be and where it’s at now.
link_to: https://read.compassofdesign.com/please-mind-the-gap-54803d2b3b9c
index_image: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1000/1*VbdLlu3lxq4AMTm6i-9p9A.jpeg
article_author: Darian Rosebrook
author_link: https://twitter.com/d_evyn
---
![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1000/1*VbdLlu3lxq4AMTm6i-9p9A.jpeg)

# Please mind the gap

## The gap of where you are now to where you want to be

Have you felt recently that there’s a gap between **where you are at now **and
**where you want to be**?

I tend to have this feeling a lot while I’m working on my businesses for **So
Magnetic **and **Compass of Design**. I see a huge gap between where I want
everything to be and where it’s at now.

Anyone who’s seen my mind map on [what I need to get
done](https://coggle.it/diagram/WYIHnOItEQABf1oB/13b6337caa14735b0590e140187b8de516153bb583480d8042220a0298904c36)
for my two businesses knows that I have pretty big ambitions and some reasonably
high standards for what I have going on.

#### There’s a reason we have standards.

It’s not like we’re 100% complacent with where our skills are at right now.
There’s always room for improvement. I want to become a master designer, have a
big presence in the design world, and meet as many cool designers, like you,
along the way.

There are people who have done it, but there’s always this gap between **where
they are **and **where I am at.**

**But let’s talk about that “gap.”**

#### How do we bridge the distance between it?

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*1GbEyZu8i1Gy_e91.jpg)

### Leverage your weaknesses, double down on your strengths

I’m on a quest to fill the gaps in my design education. Being self-taught,
there’s always something that pops up that I don’t actually know how to do.

Two areas that I struggle with constantly are color choices and typography along
with their application in media, print, and logo design.

I’ve recognized that there’s a lot I still need to learn, but** I know and
accept that there are areas where I still need to improve**.

This weakness can actually be your strength if you embrace it. You will start to
notice where other people excel and you’ll end up able to pick their process
apart, being closer to solidifying that skill.

> For every skill that you lack there’s still something you’re good at. Figure out
> how you can leverage what you know now to learn what you need to know.

If you start with finding what you need to improve, that puts you one step
closer to achieving things.

By doubling down on the things you do know, you are able to start filling your
portfolio work that highlights what you are good at. This creates opportunities
to help you learn other areas.

In my case of color and typography, I’ve been using my newsletters and articles
as a muse to create title images using various typography techniques and color
choices.

### Reverse engineer

There are plenty of people who have gone through where you are at to get to
where they are now. Many of them might be doing the exact type of work or
exhibit skills that you wish that you could be doing.

If only your work could be that good. If only your design clients could be that
great. **If only, if only…**

#### You obviously recognize good work and talent.

We wouldn’t be here this far in the article if this didn’t resonate. But
recognizing that someone’s got great skill is half of the step. You need to
recognize and analyze how that is working for them.

**Measure your work against theirs.**

Are they using more professional typefaces? <br> Can you recognize the grid
behind their layout? <br> What mockups are they using?<br> How about their
messaging? Branding?<br> How good is their social media game?

When you see the work you want to be doing, you need to reverse engineer that
formula. There’s something about what they do that is very impressive and we’ve
got to learn to recognize that.

Once you recognize it, find out how you can start applying that same technique
to your own work (design, social media, process, marketing, color, etc.) It will
take practice, and lots of frustration in the beginning, but eventually, through
this emulation, you’ll be able to get your work up to par too.

**Spend some time picking apart their process and see what you can apply to your
own practice.**

### Present your work professionally

I’m not saying you aren’t a professional now, but there are reasons why a
professional’s work looks so great.

**They present their work beautifully through process, interactions, mockups,
and case studies.**

I’m talking about taking the time to put together a first rate experience for
someone going through their work.

Sure, you can take a screen capture of your work and post it to Dribbble or
Instagram. I certainly have and that’s fine. However, **there’s a difference
between pulling back the curtain a bit and posting poor-quality screenshots of
your work**.

When someone looks through your design portfolio, they have to believe that the
product exists in this realm, that they could see or use it out in the real
world. So **I’m focusing on grabbing professional mockups, premium fonts, and
setting better presentation of my own work.**

My logo for Minimum (above) was a practice brief that was inspired from
[Briefbox](https://briefbox.me/). It’s a step towards practicing professional
level design briefs, and presenting the work in a clean and more realistic
application of the work.

**Start presenting your design with real objects, real people, and real
process.**

### Keep one eye open

Everywhere around you, there’s some random object like a menu, a mural, vehicle
dashboards, science-fiction technology, etc., that was designed by another human
being. You may not notice it, but it’s there.

#### There is exceptional design around you every day.

The thing about good design?** Half the time, good design is invisible**.

As you start to bridge that gap and get better as a designer, you’ll start to
notice lots of different design elements hidden in your environment around you.

**Yes, these little design gems are hidden in the things you use every day.**

But you have to start looking for it.

Think of them as **design snacks… **If you’re hungry to fill the gap between you
and good design, start consuming the little bits of good design that you find
and really figuring out what’s working well for it or how it can be improved.

*Really, everything you use has been designed by someone.*

If it has great typography, take a picture. If the layout and grid is exquisite,
take a picture.

**If you’re up for sharing what you’ve found out there, reply here or tag me on
**[Twitter ](http://twitter.com/compassofdesign)**or
**[Instagram!](http://instagram.com/compassofdesign)

*****

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*mo7_gcoDhIhJHCOLPxMfLg.png)

### Still trying to fill the gap?

Come join other like-minded designers who are working at becoming masters of
their craft.

Every week we go over ways to market yourself better by improving your design
skills, your personal brand, and other topics to further develop as a great
designer.

Tap either picture to get started investing in your design skills (:

<span class="figcaption_hack">Tap on either picture to get started at compassofdesign.com</span>

* [Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design?source=post)
* [Design
Thinking](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design-thinking?source=post)
* [Inspiration](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/inspiration?source=post)
* [Self
Improvement](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/self-improvement?source=post)
* [UX](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/ux?source=post)

By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.

### [Darian Rosebrook](https://read.compassofdesign.com/@d_evyn)

Brand Identity Designer for  [@itssomagnetic](http://twitter.com/itssomagnetic),
running a design community at
[@compassofdesign](http://twitter.com/compassofdesign). I write to help others
grow their skills as designers.

### [Compass of Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/?source=footer_card)

Some of the best design articles written by members of the Compass of Design
Community to help you strengthen your design skills, business/freelance ethics,
and design professionalism. Join us in the community or get on the newsletter to
get access to exclusive content.
