---
layout: articles
category: articles
title: Idea-Catalysts
description: I found myself once aimlessly clicking links in an effort to find visual inspiration for an upcoming project. Around that time, my brain began to fire off numerous images of illustrators, designers, letterers people who had one thing in common their craft fueled my developing craft.
link_to: https://read.compassofdesign.com/idea-catalystss-cf68efc90668
index_image: assets/img/articles/creative-icons.gif
article_author: Juliane Bone
author_link: https://twitter.com/julianebone
---
![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*Kz3fhW3ReHEu0IuyasHc3w.gif)

# Idea-Catalysts

## How sixteen creators helped me create

I found myself once aimlessly clicking links in an effort to find visual
inspiration for an upcoming project. Around that time, my brain began to fire
off numerous images of illustrators, designers, letterers — people who had one
thing in common: their craft fueled my developing craft.

I’ve always been mindful of the baby steps I take in design — ever musing about
the quality, the frequency, and the elevation of each step. As I thought of each
of the creators below, I remember the change they’ve brought and how that has
affected me. These prolific creators found their way into my consciousness as a
catalyst for my ideas. My aim is to drive other baby-steppers to great inspirers
like these.

** Since writing, I’ve come across a dozen or more that I wish I would have
included. Perhaps a future project will come…*

*****

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*_77utl8QsYjXrlaC44_YBA.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">[@thedailyheller](http://twitter.com/thedailyheller)</span>

**Steven Heller **Art director for the NYT Book Review, author of multiple
design books, columnist at the NYT, and more accolades, Steven is constantly in
my inbox as inspirational reading. He puts out a daily design newsletter called
the [Daily Heller](http://www.printmag.com/daily-heller-newsletter/). *Without
this Daily, there would be a considerable lack of images swirling around in my
mind of historical documentation of bottle design, letterheads, fashion design,
cartography, etc.*

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*0tbZYe8erJTSs06l82yXsA.jpeg)

[Jessica Hische](https://medium.com/@jessicahische)** **The first time I heard
Jessica Hische’s name was sitting in the common room before one of my classes. I
found her website and immediately became a fan. Jessica’s site states she is a
“lettering artist”. From the widely-distributed “love” stamp for USPS to
MailChimp’s logo, she has a prolific body of work. The Everygirl did an
insightful
[interview](http://theeverygirl.com/letterer-and-type-designer-jessica-hische)
in which she proclaims:

> The key is to always keep trying to be better.

Sounds within reach.

[Jacob Cass](https://medium.com/@justcreative)****I can’t pinpoint when Jacob’s
[site](http://www.justcreative.com/) became my go-to resource but I can’t
imagine inspiration without it. JUSTCreative’s platform brings content for
aspiring creatives on a daily basis. He’s worked on branding for one of my
favorite comedians of all time, Jerry Seinfeld. Plus, he’s a real globe-trotter
which makes for an interesting feed! In this
[interview](http://www.thelogocreative.co.uk/designer-interview-with-jacob-cass),
Logo Creative asked Jacob to describe graphic design in less than ten words. He
only needed 5:

> Thinking. Creativity. Conceptualising. Language. Everything..

I love that he ended with “everything”. It means training a mind to see design
in everyday life. It means enjoying things you might’ve bypassed before.

<span class="figcaption_hack">[@draplin](http://twitter.com/draplin)</span>

**Aaron Draplin **Founder of DDC; co-founder of Field Notes; worked with many
top companies as well as the Obama Administration. Aaron has certainly made his
mark on design. He also seems to have an enthusiastic following. [Just do a
“draplin” search on Dribbble](https://dribbble.com/search?q=draplin). AIGA
Hampton Roads
[asked](http://altdaily.com/the-man-who-made-us-fall-in-love-with-taking-notes-aaron-draplin-is-coming-to-hampton-roads-in-april/)
Aaron recently what he thought the role of the designer is in 2017 and beyond.
It’s helpful how *clarifying *he put it:

> To clarify ideas, always. But on a even bigger note, to illustrate/amplify
> simple human truths/justice to the bad people who seek to skew them

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*65W03sZdSrhc6bdv18FO_A.jpeg)

[Shepard Fairey](https://medium.com/@obeygiant)****Creator of arguably the most
recognizable poster ever, Obama “Hope” Poster, Shepard is very influential. His
art is [relevant and passionate](https://obeygiant.com/exhibitions/), and it’s
[all over the globe](https://obeygiant.com/engineering/sightings/).
[Deadline](http://deadline.com/2017/07/hulu-fall-premiere-dates-mindy-project-marvels-runaways-1202132101/)
reports Shepard’s documentary profiling his work premieres on Hulu in the fall.

<span class="figcaption_hack">[@miltonglaserinc](http://twitter.com/miltonglaserinc)</span>

**Milton Glaser **Milton Glaser, creator of the iconic “I ❤ NY”, is an
incredibly inspirational designer. Many creators following Milton have
attributed him as a major influencer in their work. Although the famous city
logo stands the test of time, Milton is far more than a classic logo or a
greatest hits poster. The NY Times
[interviewed](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/31/nyregion/milton-glaser-still-hearts-new-york.html?_r=0.)
him a while back, where someone asked why he keeps working. His *thrilling
*response was:

> You really want an answer?…It’s the greatest source of pleasure in my life. I am
> so thrilled by making something that didn’t exist before.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*J6Ovp_Zbn2J6OWbaaubUFg.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">[@debbiemillman](http://twitter.com/debbiemillman)</span>

**Debbie Millman **Writer/Educator/Artist/Designer Debbie Millman took her
skills to Design Matters, the oldest design-centered podcast where she has
interviewed all sorts of interesting people. One of the most iconic magazine
covers I remember was designed by Debbie for [Print Magazine’s 2013 Regional
Design Annual](http://www.printmag.com/imprint/the-rda-is-here). Her
eye-catching typography declares “Print is not dead”. *To me, that’s exciting
enough.*

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*qXTfLrgfkI4d-TNuSCKqww.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">[@sagmeisterwalsh](http://twitter.com/sagmeisterwalsh)</span>

**Stefan Sagmeister **Stefan is an edgy designer. One look at the portfolio of
[Sagmeister & Walsh](http://www.sagmeisterwalsh.com/) and you’ll find flashes of
color and striking layouts. The labor behind his work is very evident — *I think
that’s the most inspiring thing about Stefan.*

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*9jDImx_f1Up44ZFrI_eQDA.jpeg)

[erik spiekermann](https://medium.com/@espiekermann)****Type designer Erik
Spiekermann is the brains behind fonts such as Meta, Officina, Unit and others.
He is the design mind behind brands such as Audi, Bosch, VW, and others. In
speaking of people he looks up to in a
[99U](http://99u.com/articles/55323/erik-spiekermann-no-free-pitches) interview,
Erik says:

> Their work is so differe*nt from my work, and I thrive on that.*

I think it’s amazing to view others’ craft with enough envy to be inspired but
not inhibited. Erik taught me that.

[Stefanie Posavec](https://medium.com/@stefpos)****Stefanie and Giorgia are the
creators of Dear Data project. Their [process](http://www.dear-data.com/) is
wonderful to see. Each postcard seems extremely personal and geniune — and now
they’re on display at MOMA!

*Visual displays of data is a new obsession, thanks to Stefanie and Giorgia.*

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*aRoZ3tptnRIA8rc9pvrHIg.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">[@danstiles](http://twitter.com/danstiles)</span>

**Dan Stiles **You Don’t Have to Start with a Good Idea — You Just Have to
Finish with One. This was the title of a talk Dan did at MAX. He took us through
his process from beginning to end. *I must say, it was probably the most
influential session for me. I pore over process documenting, and to see Stiles
go from a quick sketch to an awesome concert poster is inspiring.* Grab his
[book](http://www.danstiles.com/mainshop/anpggqyeioi3dnszrmxfi0tuttwkiq).

<span class="figcaption_hack">[@jessicawalsh](http://twitter.com/jessicawalsh)</span>

**Jessica Walsh **Jessica Walsh of Sagmeister & Walsh is an inspirer and bold
visualizer. Take one look at her Behance
[Portfolio](https://www.behance.net/jessicawalsh) and you’ll see incredible and
timeless design. Beyond that, she has released a few interesting social
experiments with Timothy Goodman including 40 Days of Dating and 12 Kinds of
Kindness. Here’s a great [interview](https://n.pr/1OxtDzx) from NPR on their
resolution to become more empathetic.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*89ZijOtb89rNa-bobe0U6w.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">[@michaelbierut](http://twitter.com/michaelbierut)</span>

[Michael Bierut](https://medium.com/@michaelbierut)** **With a large body of
work behind him, Michael embarked on a daunting task: [sharpshooting graphic
design in Times
Square](http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2015/11/graphic-designer-in-times-square.html).
The meticulous care he puts into noticing everything his eyes fall upon is
precisely why so many people credit Michael in shaping their creativity.<br>
He’s an amazing designer with a portfolio that includes Disney, NYU, Saks Fifth,
Hillary Clinton’s Campaign logo, and much more.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*Vgp-r9q69Aq1YlqAmT8WYg.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">[@timothygoodman](http://twitter.com/timothygoodman)</span>

**Timothy Goodman**I had the opportunity to see illustrator/designer Timothy at
Adobe MAX last fall. He took us through some of his projects and I really
enjoyed his rogue/street art style. *I just found his
*[instagram](https://www.instagram.com/timothygoodman/)* and I feel like I need
to scroll for a while to catch up on great inspiration!* He has a really
interesting installation at [Airbnb](http://tgoodman.com/work/airbnb).

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*AgsDo5PTuAn5Rsj81fqI5g.jpeg)

[giorgia lupi](https://medium.com/@giorgialupi)****I found Giorgia and her Dear
Data project via FiveThirtyEight’s Jody Avirgan and Kate LaRue who challenged
their podcast listeners to create a similar project. Giorgia and fellow-designer
[Stefanie Posavec](https://medium.com/@stefpos) (above) shared information
designs during a year-long correspondence. I especially liked that they
pen-palled via snail mail. Design Week did a great
[write-up](https://www.designweek.co.uk/inspiration/dear-data-giorgia-lupi-stefanie-posavec)
on it.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*h8nRGoKitXGUHIZz7N-b6A.jpeg)

[Chip Kidd](https://medium.com/@chipkidd)<br> An award-winning graphic designer
known for book jacket, and most importantly to me, the very first creator to
reply kindly to this project. In typography and book design, Chip is often
referenced. His book cover designs are the face of literature. And — as Debbie
Millman exclaimed — “Print is NOT dead”. One of my new favorites of his is
[Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of
Pilgrimage](http://spinemagazine.co/articles/chip-kidd), cleverly come to life
on Chip’s homepage. *Chip also tells a wonderful story of his career in a *[Ted
Talk](https://www.ted.com/talks/chip_kidd_designing_books_is_no_laughing_matter_ok_it_is/transcript)*.
You will be inspired.*

[Get the icon set here](http://jbonedesign.com/creative-icons-set)

* [Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design?source=post)
* [Icons](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/icons?source=post)
* [Creators](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/creators?source=post)
* [Design
Inspiration](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design-inspiration?source=post)
* [Illustration](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/illustration?source=post)

Clapping shows how much you appreciated Juliane Bone’s story.

### [Juliane Bone](https://read.compassofdesign.com/@julianebone)

### [Compass of Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/?source=footer_card)

Curated design articles for self-starting designers.

think this isn’t part of the quote, but YES!

Yeah, it’s more my thoughts. Probably should de-italicize that:)

Great, and congrats, but the download link for the icon set is unfortunately
broken… :(

Uh oh, just repaired it. Thanks for letting me know!
https://www.dropbox.com/s/r3lc3brpvk585wn/package.zip?dl=0
