---
layout: articles
category: articles
title: Should Designers “Course”?
description: It has never been easier to set up an online course. Places like Skillshare, Coach, or Gumroad make it insanely easy to put content up in this manner.We hear all the time about crazy launches of how you can earn tons of money and revenue from launching them. While it has worked for plenty of people, I feel like the buzz of getting content out for the sake of “creating my first course” will cause a lot of people to burn out from the idea of paying independent creators for in-depth material that they are willing to share.
link_to: https://read.compassofdesign.com/should-designers-course-c8e5a70ebfe5
index_image: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*XE_gitQYI7AuP3TrgqLCVA.jpeg
article_author: Darian Rosebrook
author_link: https://twitter.com/darianrosebrook
---
# Should Designers “Course”?

## Not a debate of learning code, software, or tools.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*XE_gitQYI7AuP3TrgqLCVA.jpeg)

It has never been easier to set up an online course. Places like
[Skillshare](about:invalid#zSoyz), [Coach](https://cmps.co/start-coach), or[
Gumroad](https://gumroad.com/) make it insanely easy to put content up in this
manner.

We hear all the time about crazy launches of how you can [earn tons of money
](https://blog.withcoach.com/sell-online-courses-like-these-100-successful-online-course-creators-c82fca32a354)and
revenue from launching them. While it has worked for plenty of people, I feel
like the buzz of getting content out for the sake of “creating my first course”
will cause a lot of people to burn out from the idea of paying independent
creators for in-depth material that they are willing to share.

> [The buzz of getting content out for the sake of “creating my first course” will
> cause a lot of people to burn out from the idea of paying independent
creators](https://twitter.com/home?status=making a course for the sake of
âcreating a courseâ will cause people to burn out from paying independent
creators https://cmps.co/should-designers-course)

Where the perceived crime comes in is when someone is teaching on a topic they
don’t know a whole lot about. It’s attractive to people to have that kind of
revenue at launch, but in all seriousness, you have to either hit a pain point
really hard and be one of the few who do, or you have an audience that trusts
the amount of value that you are capable of providing.

Either way, it starts with you. You have an idea for a course that sounds really
good, and you begin to start creating content for it without regards to whether
or not you are equipped to teach upon that topic or without research on if
there’s anybody who’s struggling with this topic right now.

### You should be teaching what you know.

There’s no better person to teach someone how to do something than someone who
came from the path that you are going through right now. This leads to two
levels of effective teaching.

There are the seasoned travelers who have traveled many paths; possibly the very
one you’re going down right now. They then decide to invest their time into
sharing wisdom on how they got to where they are now by sharing where they’ve
been.

Then there is the gritty reality of someone who’s just been through the fight
and is sharing experiences based on recent events or relative issues. These
topics could pertain directly to the very things you are struggling with and are
therefore invaluable to continuing your journey.

Both of these people seem to know how to survive the things you are going
through right now.

I stand behind the idea that these two types of people are the ones who will
make the most effective teachers. Creators should pull from their experience and
research they are working through in order to effectively reach out to their
audience who struggle here.

### You have the map

Design is a career path that is always changing. All the time there seems to be
someone who finds the new way we should be doing something; that we should all
learn to use new software or drink La Croix and eat Avocado Toast every morning.
Things pop up all the time to challenge the status quo.

The thing is, all you need to know to be able to teach something is more about a
topic than another person. I believe (and it’s probably through the
[seanwes](https://seanwes.com/) brand that I have this mentality) that someone
who is a bit ahead of another is the best person to learn from because the
relevancy of their experience is recent enough to relate to the struggles of a
beginner. I think that is why I’m turned off by some marketers and all their
advertisements that tend to show people that you can make great money, all while
being there at the apex themselves. They are fighting a different fight than us.

You have the map for someone who is trying to get to this step you are at in
your journey. You have had to reroute your learning, rewire your thinking, and
build your own path at some point to shortcut to it. Things that you may have
been told to do no longer work. You have the actual map that others should
follow.

I, myself, am a self-taught branding designer who has spent the last 2 years
pouring over around 500 podcasts, 300 to 400 YouTube videos, and nearly 20 books
to get the frame of mind I have and the skills I need to get my work done. What
I can offer is a way to take what I know now from all of that content consumed
and applied experience to allow others to shortcut having to dig through whether
all of the same material wondering if it’s actually going to help or not.

Opening a pathway that allows people to circumvent this learning curve should be
available at a fee. The content already exists to come to the same conclusion,
but should they decide to not sift through years worth of content to get there,
they should value the amount of knowledge from them to be worth more than the
price of the course.

Things that help people come to their own conclusions by going through short
findings or curated resources should be free, but actually giving them the
content from you is up to you if you charge or not.

### The value exchange

For anything to be exchanged in any deal, one must value something more than
what they are willing to give up for it. Chris Do explains this really well in
his review on this book: [101 things I learned in business
school](https://youtu.be/mJvv0TOaam8?t=1396)

As I’m reading through the comments on this thread, a lot of people are on both
sides. They feel that there are a lot of undeserved paywalls that people put up
around their content. Others advocate that[ even with the combined cost of
courses on topics, they wouldn’t come
close](https://twitter.com/poopysocks/status/883745894998327296) to what it
takes to get a formal education in design.

This is the sole reason I chose to continue being a self taught desinger, the
amount of free resources out there are too numerous to weed through in a single
day. Therefore you can create your entire education based on free content.

Why people sell their findings as a course (and this is based off of those who
truly add value) is how they position the amount of value within. The value that
is perceived is a way to circumvent having to know what content is good and what
content is utter crap. Only someone who goes through the material and distills
that info and attempts to implement it knows whether this was a good way to do
the thing or not.

To a course creator, they price their course content as a way that the value
they get is more than single handedly walking people to resources or taking on
personal mentorship (which is usually more money than the course in general).
They feel they can help a larger audience by creating this content in a manner
that allows people to consume it through course material.

### Should a designer course?

No. If we are basing off of the general public designers, a designer should
focus on adding value based off of what they know. If they know nothing, they
should be more focused on honing in on their craft. If they do know things that
would allow people to avoid the pitfalls and learning curve in a non-repetitive
manner, they should be sharing that content.

#### Should a designer charge for their content?

If the content is a shortcut to their years worth of work and hard learning,
yes. If the content is part of what they are learning currently or is novel and
totally accessible through other resources, no. That’s better off as content
that puts value back into the community.

I get that there’s a lot of people putting out courses. I am one of them. I put
out [tons of free content](https://compassofdesign.com/community), I [curate and
share ](https://twitter.com/compassofdesign)tons of resources, I am putting
together resources to sell for new designers including courses because I feel
like there are people who could learn from what I’ve learned as fresh and
passionate content.

I don’t plan on teaching things I know nothing about or have very little
experience in, so as I test things and observe/research other areas, I present
my findings. [My course](https://compassofdesign.com/course) is going to be
drawn from everything I’ve learned in the past 2 years, so sorry if I choose to
charge for short cutting those 2 years of floundering out there on my own.

I feel like having someone pay for something means they should be serious about
moving their skills forward and will more than likely use the skills and
knowledge they acquire. So if you are willing to give the keys out, you should
expect that someone who needs that info enough is at a point that the value from
the course outweigh the value they pay for it.

*****

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*mo7_gcoDhIhJHCOLPxMfLg.png)

### Struggling to get traction in your design career?

You are a Self-Starter, a Pioneer, a Designer. However, it can be difficult
going out there with little support and encouragement. You might be head down in
your work pushing every effort out there to be known as a designer. You are not
alone.

#### We’re building a community for the champions, the pioneers, the self start
designers like you.

Get weekly tips on how you can improve your design skills as well as access to
the Compass of Design Community.

[Check out the Compass of Design](https://compassofdesign.com/community/) and
join the pack to get access to the Designer’s Self Assessment

* [Education](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/education?source=post)
* [Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design?source=post)
* [Startup](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/startup?source=post)
* [UX](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/ux?source=post)
* [Productivity](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/productivity?source=post)

Clapping shows how much you appreciated Darian Rosebrook’s story.

### [Darian Rosebrook](https://read.compassofdesign.com/@darianrosebrook)

Brand Consultant at [@itssomagnetic](http://twitter.com/itssomagnetic), running
designer network at [@compassofdesign](http://twitter.com/compassofdesign) I ate
a whole large dominos pizza by myself once. 🍕

### [Compass of Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/?source=footer_card)

Curated design articles for self-starting designers.
