---
layout: articles
category: articles
title: Do I use my name or a business name to freelance?
description: One of the things that you begin to wonder when you’re starting out as a freelance designer is whether or not you should choose to brand what you are doing. I’ve had really good conversations with members of the Compass of Design Community about branding their freelance business that led to some interesting discoveries. The choice of what to brand yourself as is never an easy one. You want to connect your heart and soul to what you do.
link_to: https://cmps.co/business-or-personal
index_image: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1200/1*T-WjwpMTovwjY7W6mh6ONA.jpeg
article_author: Darian Rosebrook
author_link: https://twitter.com/d_evyn
---
![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1000/1*T-WjwpMTovwjY7W6mh6ONA.jpeg)

# Do I use my name or a business name to freelance?

## What do I name my brand?

One of the things that you begin to wonder when you’re starting out as a
freelance designer is whether or not you should choose to brand what you are
doing.

I’ve had really good conversations with members of the Compass of Design
Community about branding their freelance business that led to some interesting
discoveries.

The choice of what to brand yourself as is never an easy one. You want to
connect your heart and soul to what you do.

Whether your choice is naming your freelance gig or to keep it under your
personal name, you want to make sure that name is the right one.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/600/0*xr_jXc3_64P3hWvi.jpg)

Recently, I had spent some time reading this book called [“Don’t Call it
That”](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00RWS90JU/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=compassofdesi-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=B00RWS90JU&linkId=da98ae1d707d06246525e33b6aa5e85d)
(afl)

This book is really brilliant in the exercises and branding expertise you get by
reading it.

It’s a “thought-to-paper” kind of workbook that gives you the ideas you need to
decide on a name and meaning behind it.

Even though I’m mainly a designer by trade, my skills need to include helping
clients with using brand names, messaging, and double-entendres.

I highly recommend this book if you will be working in the branding space and if
you are starting out as a freelancer and decide you need to come up with a
business name.

So if naming things isn’t your strong suit, this book is a good resource to help
you avoid searching through those thousands of blog posts.

**So how do you choose?**

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*gEmWgaO-UqEWjdMu.jpg)

### The Designer’s Choice

The choice is really up to you and** how you want to position yourself.**

Positioning yourself in a certain market or niche can help you with clarify how
your operation runs.

You might want to be a “big-name” designer someday. You might be comfortable
running a tight-knit operation. Maybe you want to scale to a large design team,
taking on some of the biggest brands in the globe.

Depending on how you plan on running your operation, you’ll need to decide where
you want to position your brand before choosing a name.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*9eRETeRE69wlLZ76.jpg)

### How do you want to position yourself?

There are designers that have chosen to use their name as their own business.

There are other designers that chose to brand their business separate from
themselves.

> Each one has chosen their name because it works for them.

Are you wanting to be seen as a premium brand? <br> Do you want to have a full
team in the future?<br> Is being more personal and transparent important to
you?<br> Are you wanting to be seen as an affordable option?

Figure out the goals you have for your career as a designer, and figure out what
clients you want to be bringing in as a designer.

The branding on your business along with your name can change how you are seen
in your market.

**Let’s look at both options:**

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*iPX6wHZcsgggxuWp.jpg)

### You as a sole designer

**I have a lot of respect for** anyone who decides to go out alone as **a sole
designer of their own operation**.

You are going to be doing a lot of things yourself unless you can get really
good at automation and delegation. Being on your own means that you value having
a small operation and trust yourself to get things done.

**Be proud of that.**

Choosing to use your own name as a freelancer creates a very transparent
operation to your clients.

I chose to use this option early on and for nearly 1.5 years and got repeat work
under “**Darian Rosebrook Designs” **as my name of choice.

#### This builds what is called a lifestyle business.

Essentially, **you are married to your profession**. This is a great thing
because people associate the word “designer” with your name. So any time someone
starts mentioning design (or needs to find a designer), your name is more likely
to pop up.

You begin to come across as a very transparent and personal business. People
will feel more comfortable sharing information with you and can see that there
is a human being behind what they’ll get by hiring you.

#### Where that could bottle neck your business is trying to grow your business.

I don’t plan on selling my business in the future, but I can’t imagine there’s a
lot of people willing to buy “Darian Rosebrook Designs” without rebranding it.
But also it’d be difficult to present a “team” with my name as the brand.

‘In my experience, when I went from doing web design to logos and branding,
people were still asking me to do websites. They also came to me because I
seemed cheap enough to work with because I wasn’t running an agency (more on
that in a bit).

If I was changing my positioning with client work,** it would take a lot to
disassociate myself as a low-priced web designer.**

**If you have a very unique name, it has built in Search Engine Optimization**.
This means it’ll be very easy to look you up and hire you for what you do.

Be careful though, if you aren’t squeaky clean with your social media,** people
can find all sorts of stuff on you on the internet.**

Even then, it’s very hard to be known as a “top” freelancer on the internet
without scoring some really important jobs or having some agent looking out for
you. But it’s entirely possible to be a designer branded as yourself and make
good money.

People will search out designers by name because they have heard of them or
they’ve been recommended to them.

The association of “design” and your name is the best reason to go for this
option.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*9wQV_XsDzfcsDSst.jpg)

### You with a team

I know from personal experience that trying to do everything yourself can be
very daunting and very exhausting. After nearly a year of being the sole
designer of my operation, I have been focusing on positioning my design business
to be able to hire people in the future.

When I am ready to get more people in my operation, one of the first places I’ll
be looking to hire freelancers and employees is the [Compass of Design
Community](https://compassofdesign.com/community). I don’t plan on doing small
jobs forever. Because the time was right, it was time for me to choose a
business name.

My decision to switch from “[Darian Rosebrook
Designs](https://darianrosebrook.com/)” to “[So
Magnetic](https://somagnetic.com/)” was to facilitate this change. I currently
have enough of my bills covered that I can take some steps to build out the new
business name the right way.

I could still have done this with my personal name or a variation. I know there
are a few people that I follow and have had really good conversations with that
chose to use their personal names within their business (e.g. Sean McCabe from
“**seanwes” **and Gary Vaynerchuck from “**VaynerMedia”** ).

The name “So Magnetic” is actually a play on a few things. I love rare earth
minerals like gems and magnets. As a branding designer, you want to create
something that attracts people to the business. So you’d want the branding to be
magnetic. Also since So Magnetic owns Compass of Design, a compass is a tool
made with magnets. All of these names are built off of my idea that anyone can
be taken as a raw, unrefined thing and be refined into something strong and
valuable.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*gMdWLrdkBiONi0Pe.jpg)

### Consistency

The key to being able to effectively position yourself and your business name is
with consistency.

No matter what you choose, you want to be consistent in how you present what you
do.

Everything from[ introducing yourself to potential
clients](http://cmps.co/client-onboard-3), your wording on your website and
social media profiles, and your markets within the work you do should reflect
your position of choice.

For those who have an established personal brand, this can be particularly
frightening if you’re deciding whether to switch what you chose before now.

If you have been running that brand for a while, you have an audience and list
of clients that seems too big to leave behind. If you chose a business name and
feel like you need to be more personable, you don’t want to lose the large
clients you’ve been working with forever. If you’ve been going with a personal
name, you might be afraid your old clients will be scared off by becoming a
company.

But this transition doesn’t have to be frightening. You simply have to overlap
the brands until you are able to phase out the other.

In my transition from personal to business, I’ve kept my personal site open with
my contact form now including my business name in there.

Any new clients will be directed to use So Magnetic’s process and it’s website.

All my old clients, I let them know I’m transitioning my practice to So Magnetic
and that I’ll be using the process through there, reassuring them that they get
a more professional experience through the process.

Any case studies that exist from my old practice I’ll be contacting the
companies to ensure I’m able to switch to the new business name. If they don’t
agree, that’s fine. They can live on the old personal site which is now it’s own
acquisition channel.

Any new case studies will be placed under the So Magnetic brand as I start to
position it as a premium design service.

The work that you choose to present from a client you’ve designed for will bring
about more jobs like that one. So make sure you present only your most
professional work in order to [make sure your portfolio converts new
clients.](https://read.compassofdesign.com/how-to-make-a-design-portfolio-that-converts-f0f156854ef4?source=collection_detail----2aab9cced860-----7----------------)

So if you want to continually get more premium design clients, keep posting
premium design work.

Start being consistent throughout the transition, be vocal about the change, and
endorse your new brand as it’s own practice and you’ll be in the clear.

Naming is never an easy task, but hopefully now you have some insight on which
to choose in the near future.

*****

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*mo7_gcoDhIhJHCOLPxMfLg.png)

### Still need help with branding as a designer?

Come join other like-minded designers who are working at becoming masters of
their craft.

Every week we go over ways to market yourself better by improving your design
skills, your personal brand, and other topics to further develop as a great
designer.

Tap either picture to get started investing in your design skills (:

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/600/1*Z4keeZyradapOqSji4gV0g.jpeg)

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/600/1*5qCNGOpbIMY9ms1mE1bQhw.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Tap on either picture to get started at compassofdesign.com</span>

* [Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design?source=post)
* [Design
Thinking](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design-thinking?source=post)
* [Branding](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/branding?source=post)
* [Freelancing](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/freelancing?source=post)
* [Entrepreneurship](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/entrepreneurship?source=post)

Clapping shows how much you appreciated Darian Rosebrook’s story.

### [Darian Rosebrook](https://read.compassofdesign.com/@d_evyn)

Brand Consultant at [@itssomagnetic](http://twitter.com/itssomagnetic), running
designer network at [@compassofdesign](http://twitter.com/compassofdesign) I ate
a whole large dominos pizza by myself once. 🍕

### [Compass of Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/?source=footer_card)

Curated design articles for self-starting designers.
