---
layout: articles
category: articles
title: Finding your anchor in design
description: All the pains and challenges one faces now are not going to be the same ones they experience 3 to 5 years down the road. As I am going through my second year, I aim to help these pains by prescribing my own experience and research in writing and collaboration.
link_to: https://read.compassofdesign.com/finding-your-anchor-in-design-2513044fe7e7
index_image: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*rTbFjfKDV8BOBuRThbjm4Q.png
article_author: Darian Rosebrook
author_link: https://twitter.com/d_evyn
---
![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*rTbFjfKDV8BOBuRThbjm4Q.png)

# Finding your anchor in design

*Design with confidence, a skill needed for every designer, is going to be an
ongoing series of articles, resources and course materials addressing the early
pains of getting a design career off of the ground.*

All the pains and challenges one faces now are not going to be the same ones
they experience 3 to 5 years down the road. As I am going through my second
year, I aim to help these pains by prescribing my own experience and research in
writing and collaboration.

I struggled for my first few months as a designer because I took a lead role in
a startup agency. This has led to two outcomes: challenging myself every day to
continue to grow, and constantly battling the impostor syndrome that many people
struggle with.

The biggest challenge I faced was finding my anchor. I needed to understand who
I am at the core and what values I stand for. I am uniquely me, and not a single
person could live my life better than I could. I asked myself a handful of
questions to know where I stand on most issues, understand what it is I offer to
other people, how it helps them, and how I can continue to grow within each
area.

### Asking yourself the hard questions

Asking others difficult questions for a living is easier than asking yourself
some hard questions. I had to truly define who I was from the bottom up.

Here are some self discovery topics I chose to get a better sense of confidence
in who I am.

### Who are you?

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*88UzOrBRE4FbTGQ9czL4NA.png)
<span class="figcaption_hack">by[ Jonathan Reed](https://unsplash.com/@jonathonreed)</span>

*Things to consider: Decide who you are, what values and vision drive you, and
the principles you live by*.

#### Here’s who I am:

My name is [Darian Evyn Rosebrook](https://twitter.com/d_evyn) which means “a
person of greatness, who is a kingly, youthful warrior.”

My vision is to be a man of great value; A leader of honesty and integrity who
is in tune with his values. I strive to be someone who continues to grow at
least 1% every day and never let that slide backwards. I have the gift of being
alive a perfectly healthy brain that should not go to waste.

I have personal values written for: family, friendships, health, accountability,
kindness, confidence, discipline, purpose, sincerity, inspiration, curiosity,
adventure, and empathy. Each a sentence or two long and I visit all these
principles each month and evaluate myself on staying true to this anchor.

### Have a thorough understanding of what you do.

<span class="figcaption_hack">[Justin Main](https://unsplash.com/@photified)</span>

Even the quietest individuals should know about their own abilities and goals.
Going through personal discovery creates and fosters a sense of confidence
seeing that you know more about yourself than when you started. You have a
service to offer people. This service is worth money to other people, but most
of all, this service is worth money to you. You may do the thing you do for
altruistic reasons, but I can safely assume you offer a service that allows you
to better the lives of people in a way. People will ask you what you charge for
these services. Knowing yourself and discovering what that’s worth to you will
allow you to say what that price is right off the bat.

If I asked you “how much do you charge for a logo?” and you say you have to get
back to me on that answer, more than likely you haven’t sat down to figure out
what that service is worth to you.

In a recent conversation with [Justin Jackson](http://twitter.com/mijustin), I
was asked this very question. He wanted to know how much I charged for doing a
logo, so I told him what the agency I worked with put in a bid for, and he
answered that’s great, what do YOU charge for a logo? I can say there were a few
thousand dollars in difference, but it was literally the same scope of work
outside the agency as it is inside being the sole designer there.

There are very solid resources for understanding pricing and selling your
services. The [AIGA
](http://www.aiga.org/aiga/content/tools-and-resources/design-business-and-ethics/)site
has plenty of information about standards and expectations of design services.
As well as looking at what salaries are available for the exact line of work you
do.

When asked, “what goes into your rate?” you must be ready with a solid answer.
If you struggle with giving a concrete short pitch, your client might have
uncertainty before hiring you. The challenge with being a new designer is not
knowing the right questions to having a process in place so you can expect what
the scope of work that you’ll do normally. You need to visit some case studies
of some of the better agencies out there and understand for the line of work you
do, with every public step in a project case study, there’s between 2–5 more
that you don’t see on there.

While I’m still considering whether it’s worth my time to do freelance Web
Design versus building myself as a Brand Identity Designer, I have a post on [my
full process of being a web
designer](https://darianrosebrook.com/archive/Web-Design-Work-Flow-for-2016).

This scope of work might take a week to two weeks to complete at a full-time
schedule, but this is a solid process that allows me to know that what I am
doing is working.

### How does your work help others?

<span class="figcaption_hack">[Dmitri Popov](https://unsplash.com/@dmpop)</span>

When you’re asked what you offer, it is tempting to say what services you do.
That talk with Justin Jackson had me pitching my design services to him. And
I’ll tell you, the answer that he received was a mess. It wasn’t something that
I’ve verbalized more than 10 times last year. I was more focused on what
services I could offer, I forgot to think about what the potential client would
want. They don’t want a new logo, they want to be a coolly refined brand.

This is the difference of “Here is what services I offer” versus “Here is what
you can do because of my services”

There’s a great snippet out there about[ features vs.
benefits](https://www.useronboard.com/features-vs-benefits/) that explains in a
small graphic that “people don’t buy products; they buy better versions of
themselves.”

Somewhere in your work and services page you are probably explaining this in a
roundabout way. I audited myself on this recently and found that I had almost
skipped on this entirely. I talk about my process in heavy detail, but not much
about how my work actually helps people and their companies. Maybe it’ll be
easier to describe after some more high-quality clients.

It’s important to focus less on what you do and more on what you can do to help
others. This will help you sell the end result which is what people really want.

### How are you continuing to grow?

<span class="figcaption_hack">[Francesco Gallarotti](https://unsplash.com/@gallarotti)</span>

How I continue to grow every day is by understanding that I don’t know
everything. And that’s okay. The world is too big to know everything there is to
know about any given topic. But if I could only grow by 1% I’ll have done
something. The fun part is trying to do that every day. There’s so much to know
and what we know changes. By having a solid foundation of where my skills sit
and where there are areas to improve, I give myself enough time and room to
grow.

This challenge is realized in my newsletter, and it becomes a public bout of
accountability. I have to honestly put out work that I do or plan to implement
and it becomes my duty to report on what I am learning and how it’s affecting my
work. By challenging myself to put out the raw struggles I have and my proposed
solutions, I keep myself growing every day.

A brief chat with Sarah Doody, who I’ll have a great snippet from next week,
confirms this as a great thing for me to be doing because “ It’s great to have a
side project because it forces you to always be learning.” Your work you do on
the side can be great to increase the level of work you’re able to produce. Find
something that can keep you growing every day.

### How are you currently doing in all of these areas?

> “Without [a] leader first believing in himself or herself, true leadership will
> exist only in title.”

> –Peter Barron Stark

*****

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*mo7_gcoDhIhJHCOLPxMfLg.png)

### Get around other designers like you who value the little things.

You are a Self-Starter, a Pioneer, a Designer. It can be difficult going out
there with little support and encouragement. You might be head down in your work
pushing every effort out there to be known as a designer. You are not alone.

#### We’re building a community for the champions, the pioneers, the self start
designers like you.

Get weekly tips on how you can improve your design skills as well as access to
the Compass of Design Community.

Enrollment is free until we open the [Design with
Confidence](https://compassofdesign.com/course) course in July

[Check out the Compass of Design](https://compassofdesign.com/community/) and
join the pack to get access to the Designer’s Self Assessment

People who helped contribute: [Justin Jackson](https://justinjackson.ca/),
sourced a lot of the articles to help me change my frame of mind; [Sarah
Doody](https://twitter.com/sarahdoody), talked a lot about confidence recently
and helped reiterate this is something I should be doing.

*****

> Originally posted on [darianrosebrook.com
> ](https://darianrosebrook.com/archive/find-your-anchor)on Jan 14, 2017

* [Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design?source=post)
* [Freelancing](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/freelancing?source=post)
* [Personal
Growth](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/personal-growth?source=post)
* [Entrepreneurship](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/entrepreneurship?source=post)
* [Branding](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/branding?source=post)

Clapping shows how much you appreciated Darian Rosebrook’s story.

### [Darian Rosebrook](https://read.compassofdesign.com/@d_evyn)

Brand Consultant at [@itssomagnetic](http://twitter.com/itssomagnetic), running
designer network at [@compassofdesign](http://twitter.com/compassofdesign) I ate
a whole large dominos pizza by myself once. 🍕

### [Compass of Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/?source=footer_card)

Curated design articles for self-starting designers.
