---
layout: articles
category: articles
title: Finding the best design resources — And having a gold-miner’s mindset
description: It always seems the more you read into someone or something, the more you’re able to find things that you don’t agree with. Just think of all the talk with politics or healthcare. (or don’t, that’ll get you sidetracked). Everything out there has things that you have to tune out to get to the good stuff.
link_to: https://cmps.co/goldminer-mindset
index_image: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1200/1*fCHVtFONYQmo07BKusPpcg.jpeg
article_author: Darian Rosebrook
author_link: https://twitter.com/d_evyn
---
![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1000/1*fCHVtFONYQmo07BKusPpcg.jpeg)

# Finding the best design resources

## And having a gold-miner’s mindset

Let’s start with a story.

Janelle is someone who takes her days very seriously. She’s got the sweet
position of UI Designer for X Company where she has been doing great work. One
of the people in her industry, Megan, has been sharing her experience as a UI
Designer going from a small practice to scaling her own business as a UI design
agency.

Janelle hears something that Megan said in a recent podcast of hers that she
disagrees with. Janelle then stops listening to Megan’s podcast for UI Designers
and decides based on that one comment of Megan’s that she doesn’t actually know
what she’s doing as a UI Designer.

Janelle then burns that bridge and puts together strong advice to any UI
Designer that Megan isn’t a good resource to find information about UI Design.

Janelle then continues her life as normal, not thinking about what Megan is
doing.

*****

Along the same lines, I am a Brand Identity Designer that is working on
mastering my own craft. Every day, I take time consuming resources in order to
help further my skills and mindset as a Brand Identity Designer. These resources
can be anything from videos about graphic design, business books, animation
tutorials, twitter feeds, etc.

In almost every piece of content,** I am able to find something of value that I
can apply to my current process or structure**.

When I find something that was helpful, I try to share it with my friends in the
Compass of Design community. Not every time are these topics received very well.
Recently I had been seeing a common thread among members, subscribers, and
friends following my social media pages.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*3NgoCgQYcEVtyPAy.png)

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*AsAbkU8q4OkIeeeA.png)

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*jbuA7Cv1frSKgiBV.png)

There has been a lot more to each conversation going on, but I figured I can
share this topic with you too in order to make sure you have your best foot
forward when taking in resources about design.

It feels like people think that *in order for you to actually learn from a given
person or resource, you have to agree with it 100% or else you should disregard
the whole thing as a not-so-good resource.*

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*C2r8ITQ8cDy6D8Ly.jpg)

### Why I choose to be a gold miner.

A bunch of you see everything I share through all my accounts. Honestly, that’s
a lot of places to follow me (Dribbble, Twitter, Instagram, Youtube, Medium,
etc). But what you don’t see is everything that I’m taking in and consuming.

> For everything I post in the community and on social media, there’s probably 2–4
> things I don’t.

**I don’t just follow the giants in our design industry**. A lot of people
around me are sharing great content based on what they do. However, I am not
looking to learn every single thing from these posts either. I have a filter.

**I’m looking for the gold nuggets** (I hate the word nuggets but it fits in the
topic). These **nuggets are hidden in everyone’s content **that they share.

Because there’s so much fluff out there in content, you have to have a goal in
mind of what you are looking for when you’re going through content.

**You need to know what you’re looking for in order to know if it’s worth your
time to mine for gold there**.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*NS3XeuxVoDRYY_Zw.jpg)

I told you a little bit about the things that I take a look at to improve my
skills. I don’t just look at the resources that are out there on the internet.

Every part of my life, and the people, media, and politics in it, I’m looking
for the tiny bits of hidden value.

It always seems the more you read into someone or something, the more you’re
able to find things that you don’t agree with. Just think of all the talk with
politics or healthcare. (or don’t, that’ll get you sidetracked).

Everything out there has things that you have to tune out to get to the good
stuff.

> You won’t agree with everyone in life, but even then, there’s gold hidden in the
> content these people share. Mine for it <br>  [Click to
tweet](https://twitter.com/home?status=You won't agree with everyone in life,
but even then, there's gold hidden in the content these people share. Mine for
it â@compassofdesign)

A prospector doesn’t keep all the rocks, mud and twigs they find. They take what
they need and move on.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*-0Hx6peJZGN2L_x5.jpg)

I can’t tell you how many times I have re-watched or re-read something I’ve gone
through before. Even if I didn’t get something in it the first time, I sometimes
go through a piece of content to see if anything has changed.

Usually I find that I can relate to something finally because I’m closer to the
point where they are at in sharing it. Meaning, that I am now part of the
intended audience for that content. A lot of my learning has come with my
transition into business and community leadership.

**You never know what you might have missed the first time around**

So by going over the resource one more time, you’re able to relate better to the
content. (As an example, I listen to the old episodes of the **seanwes** podcast
again and again because there’s always something I missed or didn’t relate to
the first time.)

Once you reach a certain point, I hope you go back through valuable content once
more to ring out as much value as possible.

As you’re poring over a new resource, it’s important to take notes in order to
determine what you’ve taken away from it.

Think of it as a map directly back to the gold you’ve found. This way you don’t
have to wade through everything again if you need to come back to it. I’m
constantly writing notes, taking time-signiatures down, references, anything
that helps me.

I’ll watch animation reels to see how someone highlights areas of the frame.
I’ll look at color choices in cinematography. I’ll rewrite advertisements or
re-sign up for newsletters just to see the words that are used to bring people
in. All the while, taking enough notes to adopt their process to my process.

Without the notes, the pieces start to blur and you have content that you’ve
consumed melding into the rest of everything else from the week.

**Having notes helps you highlight exactly what value you’ve gotten from a
resource**: both positive things to add and negative things to avoid.

You’d be surprised at the amount of knowledge and experience another person has.
But if you immediately dismiss someone because what they share doesn’t
immediately align to your values, you’re missing a huge opportunity.

**I’m also not asking you to wade through a bunch of B.S**. or low-quality
stuff. I’m advocating that **in every piece of content that someone shares,
there’s something of value** that motivated them to share it.

Maybe the thing that they know can spark an idea or debate that helps you learn
something new or solidify what you actually know. Either way, there’s a wealth
of untapped knowledge that could be available to you if you’re willing to look
past differing views and start to value looking on the things that drove them to
make their decision.

You have to play both psychologist along with the brand specialist in order to
move any needles forward.

**I pride myself on having the ability to see two sides of a coin**. What I
share is my opinions based off of experience. Good debates spark that
inspiration and help me keep my own facts in check.

Like I had said above, **you won’t always agree on 100% of things we share**.
But you have to be able to look at everything to find a little value.

This is also true with my own content.

**Should I share anything that you feel shouldn’t be shared or you have a better
idea of how to do something, let me know!**

I don’t bite. I promise. The topics from the publication are usually sparked by
good conversations I’m having around the design communities. So when I present
something, it’s usually because I have experience testing their ideas or know
the person well enough to trust their level of expertise. .

Not everyone will be able to use every piece of content I make. And not many
people take feedback and criticism as well as I do. But I want to let you know
**you can always use communities like ours to seek feedback.**

**You might even get the chance to change my mind **on certain topics**, **which
would be cool.

You can either ignore content you disagree with and just pull what you need from
the content, or you can open a healthy debate on the topic.

I don’t want to preach what I know, I would rather that someone take my logo
design business and be professional than to ignore that I’m not teaching well to
others.

So if there’s something let me know, please let me know. The best topics are
created when they answer something that you’re replying with or when they come
directly from the community.

*****

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*mo7_gcoDhIhJHCOLPxMfLg.png)

### Still wondering how to find gold in design resources?

Come join other like-minded designers who are working at becoming masters of
their craft.

Every week we go over ways to market yourself better by improving your design
skills, your personal brand, and other topics to further develop as a great
designer.

Tap either picture to get started investing in your design skills (:

<span class="figcaption_hack">Tap on either picture to get started at compassofdesign.com</span>

* [Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design?source=post)
* [Design
Thinking](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design-thinking?source=post)
* [Design
Research](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design-research?source=post)
* [Education](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/education?source=post)
* [Bootcamp](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/bootcamp?source=post)

Clapping shows how much you appreciated Darian Rosebrook’s story.

### [Darian Rosebrook](https://read.compassofdesign.com/@d_evyn)

Brand Identity Designer for  [@itssomagnetic](http://twitter.com/itssomagnetic),
running a design community at
[@compassofdesign](http://twitter.com/compassofdesign). I write to help others
grow their skills as designers.

### [Compass of Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/?source=footer_card)

Some of the best design articles written by members of the Compass of Design
Community to help you strengthen your design skills, business/freelance ethics,
and design professionalism. Join us in the community or get on the newsletter to
get access to exclusive content.
