---
layout: articles
category: articles
title: Design is better with friends
description: Just a lighthearted talk today about the connections we make as designers. We started talking about this a few weeks back in the design community and I figured I’d share my experience with you all here too.
link_to: https://read.compassofdesign.com/design-is-better-with-friends-279494355d52
index_image: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*sQDUA4oHQi14h72F.PNG
article_author: Darian Rosebrook
author_link: https://twitter.com/darianrosebrook
author_img:
---
# Design is better with friends

Just a lighthearted talk today about the connections we make as designers. We
started talking about this a few weeks back in the design community and I
figured I’d share my experience with you all here too.

Design is better with friends

*****

I’ve been encouraged as a young kid to always be making new friends. It always
got annoying when my mom kept pushing me door to door to introduce me whenever
there was a new kid to the neighborhood.

I don’t know if it was her pushing me out in front of people, or a natural
aversion to being in the spotlight, but I became quite an introverted person as
I grew older.

I always wanted to leverage the things that I was talented in or knew about to
try to get people’s interest in what I was doing. But I found that, as much of a
cliché as it is, it’s not what you know that matters, it’s who you know.

Even more, to quote Sean McCabe again from **seanwes**

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*sQDUA4oHQi14h72F.PNG)

### Design has been no different.

It wasn’t until I started running my own business and design practice that I
realized just how important it is to make connections, and how much better it is
to have friends in the industry.

I’m talking about doing more than “adding someone to your professional network
on LinkedIn.” If you want to truly grow as a designer, you should be getting
around the others in your industry and taking part of the conversations out
there.

I attribute a lot of my success right now from being able to connect with great
designers, product people, marketers, and other makers out there. By having real
conversation with leaders, getting to know them, and building a network of
people who help promote and build each other up.

There’s something about knowing and interacting with people that helps you move
along the success staircase. It’s not required that you meet other people out
there, but you can accelerate your path by being an active member of the
community and the conversations going on out there.

### Get in the conversation

I’ve met nearly all of my design friends through social media. Others have been
by following them and then getting involved in their communities.

There are a handful of friends that I made by following Travis Nielsen when he
was running the [DevTips Youtube
Channel](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/pxtehq/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vdXNlci9EZXZUaXBzRm9yRGVzaWduZXJz)
and Slack Community. Then there are a lot of friends I’ve made by getting
involved with the communities around [Chris Do and The
Futur](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/x6cph3/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cueW91dHViZS5jb20vdXNlci9UaGVTa29vbFJvY2tz).
I’ve gotten around the great people within the [Logogeek
community](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/6zseho/aHR0cHM6Ly9sb2dvZ2Vlay51ay8=),
[seanwes
community](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/kgamh2/aHR0cHM6Ly9zZWFud2VzLmNvbQ==),
and those that are part of the [MegaMaker
community](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/59bvh8/aHR0cDovL21lZ2FtYWtlci5jbw==)
as well.

There’s a reason why these people have known my name. I’ve been present and
active within their environment, taking part of the conversations that go on.

Now that I have the [Compass of Design
community](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/22h2h9/aHR0cHM6Ly9jb21wYXNzb2ZkZXNpZ24uY29tL2NvbW11bml0eQ==),
our conversation around design continues well past what we learn here in the
articles and newsletters. There’s always a good thread of questions, answers,
and resources being shared that has been helping us grow.

### Start creating conversations

One of the leaders of design conversation has been through Twitter. I use
twitter almost daily to participate in some of the conversation that is going on
in design. But there are other places to go to start conversing with others out
there.

* Local Meetups (I’ll be going to [Dribbble’s Hang-Time conference in
Seattle](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/qxu8h8/aHR0cHM6Ly9kcmliYmJsZS5jb20vc2hvdHMvNDI0ODQ5My1IYW5nLVRpbWUtU2VhdHRsZS1BZnRlci1QYXJ0eQ==)
that’s happening this May)
* [quora.com](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/gxinhw/aHR0cDovL3F1b3JhLmNvbQ==)
for asking or answering peoples questions about design.
* [Graphic Design’s Stack
Exchange](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/9dfzhd/aHR0cHM6Ly9ncmFwaGljZGVzaWduLnN0YWNrZXhjaGFuZ2UuY29tLw==)
* [Designernews.co](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/30tphd/aHR0cDovL2Rlc2lnbmVybmV3cy5jbw==)
(people here can be royal jerks though. I guess that’s true everywhere)

And though that’s not an exhausted list by any means, there are place people are
going to ask questions, and to start conversations. You’ve got to be ready to
listen and willing to partake in there. Once you do, you’ll find that you start
to make a lot of connections with others.

### Start connecting with Doers not Don’t-ers

I want to emphasize that if your plan is to grow as a designer, you need to be
interacting with practitioners of progress.

Not everyone is going to stick around. Building things and moving forward is a
constant game of people giving up, or pivoting to something else. So it’s
possible that people you were really interested in getting to know just aren’t
doing anything anymore to move forward.

That’s why I try to get around people who are actively in the pursuit of
something. I also strive to achieve things through my pursuit of design, so as I
grow, I want to be bringing people with me.

I’ve had opportunities to connect with some great people who sadly for one
reason or another, ended up shutting down some things that they were working on.
And this is with handfuls of people that I’ve gotten to know.

It’s entirely okay for people to “throw in the towel” on something they were
working on because it is no longer working or fulfilling them. Goals change,
circumstances change, people change.

Just know that if someone is constantly giving in and is trying to pull you down
with them, that it’s probably because they’re a don’t-er and it may be best to
love them and the efforts that they gave, but also move on, getting in the
company of people moving forward.

### Be Present

Knowing when and where to be is kind of a science in itself. As you start to get
further along in your design career, you start to see where people are
gathering, or already have a place you go to in order to join in on what’s going
on.

Even if it’s just to comment ‘lol’ at the end of a long post, or to reshare an
article your colleague wrote, you want to make sure your name is one that’s
being seen out there.

### Play the game

#### They say if you make something people will show up

Though this is occasionally true, you have to know that it’s a slow start to a
burning flame. You have to have patience in order to not burst into flames and
go off like a light..

I’m reminded by one of my favorite songs who’s opening line is spoken “If
there’s nothing left to burn, you’ve got to set yourself on fire.”

What it really takes is consistency. If you go all out on one thing, that may be
enough to drum up interest, but at the end you’re burnt out and can’t continue.
Therefore people will move on.

However, if you’re consistently adding a small bit to your fire, you can get
that thing to a roaring bonfire that burns for a long time and starts getting
its own attention. All of this done by remaining consistent and persistent.

### Do things, Tell People

Make something you can talk about. [Carl Lange talks about this in his
article](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/nrcohq/aHR0cHM6Ly9jYXJsLmZsYXguaWUvZG90aGluZ3N0ZWxscGVvcGxlLmh0bWw=)
that when you make something, even if it’s completely useless, you should grab a
drink, get some courage and talk about what you have made. He says it a little
funnier than this, but I agree with him that if you make something, you should
be proud of it, even if it sucks.

If I waited to start building my connections until I was able to do really good
things, [it would have taken much longer than it has by iterating in
public.](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/4osvh7/aHR0cHM6Ly9yZWFkLmNvbXBhc3NvZmRlc2lnbi5jb20vaXRlcmF0ZS1pbi1wdWJsaWMtY2xvc2luZy10aGUtZ2FwLWZyb20taWRlYS10by1leGVjdXRpb24tZGJiN2MyZDZjMzk1P3NvdXJjZT11c2VyX3Byb2ZpbGUtLS0tLS0tLS00OC0tLS0tLS0tLS0tLS0tLS0=)

Instead, I have been building things and getting out there to tell the world
what I’ve been up to or am going to be doing.

People love to follow others who have ambition. It’s not that they want to be
ambitious themselves, but not everyone is going to be trying to actively grow as
a person, designer, or whatever they are (dog, alien, robot). In fact, somewhere
close to 98% of people never really comment or hit the like button on anything
online.

So as long as you’re doing something and sharing it, [you’re now in the top 1%
of the internet.
Welcome.](https://el2.convertkit-mail2.com/c/preview/wea2h6/aHR0cHM6Ly9tZWRpdW0uY29tL0BrZXlTcGFyay93ZWxjb21lLXRvLXRoZS0xLW9mLXRoZS1pbnRlcm5ldC1hMThjOGE3MmYwYmMjLnQ3YTlzenBmdg==)

As you start to do more things, more people will come to see what you’re doing
and that just takes some patience and persistence as people start to join up
with you.

### Start reaching out to people

#### How many people’s newsletters are you on?

How many newsletters are you subscribed to? How many of those have you responded
to?

As a creator of content, I get to interact with a decent core group of people
who respond to the newsletters. They ask questions about the topics, they
suggest areas where I should revise what I said (like in my microcopy article)
and I get to know more about what they are doing.

I’m keeping an eye on these people and what they are doing, which as I grow, I
might be able to use their services or hire them in the future for other things.

The same goes for you as a reader. As you continue to read, watch, or consume
someone’s content, occasionally reach out with some takeaways. Just simple
messages like this put you on their radar and start the seeds to potentially
great friendships and opportunities you might never have had access to.

If you find someone doing good things too, not just on newsletters, reach out to
them, or share their work! It’s truly humbling to be shared by others and I do
say, I’m more privy to starting conversation with someone who shared something I
made.

*****

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*mo7_gcoDhIhJHCOLPxMfLg.png)

### How do you know what skills you should focus on?

If this is a question you need an answer to, come join other like-minded
designers who are also working at becoming masters of their craft.

Every week we go over ways to market yourself better by improving your design
skills, your personal brand, and other topics to further develop as a great
designer.

Tap either picture to get started investing in your design skills (:

<span class="figcaption_hack">Tap on either picture to get started at compassofdesign.com</span>

* [Community](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/community?source=post)
* [Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design?source=post)
* [Design
Thinking](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/design-thinking?source=post)
* [UX](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/ux?source=post)
* [Networking](https://read.compassofdesign.com/tagged/networking?source=post)

By clapping more or less, you can signal to us which stories really stand out.

### [Darian Rosebrook](https://read.compassofdesign.com/@darianrosebrook)

Brand Identity Designer for [@itssomagnetic](http://twitter.com/itssomagnetic),
running a design community at
[@compassofdesign](http://twitter.com/compassofdesign). I write to help others
grow their skills as designers.

### [Compass of Design](https://read.compassofdesign.com/?source=footer_card)

Some of the best design articles written by members of the Compass of Design
Community to help you strengthen your skills in design, business/freelance, and
marketing yourself.
